Add initial flow control text and capsules from HTTP/2 (#166)
ietf-wg-webtrans/draft-ietf-webtrans-http3: draft-ietf-webtrans-http3.md

amount of data that can be exchanged across all streams in each session; see
{{flow-control-limit-streams}}.

The underlying QUIC connection provides connection and stream level flow
control.  The connection data limit defines the total amount of data that can be
sent across all WebTransport sessions and other non-WebTransport streams.  A
stream's data limit controls the amount of data that can be sent on that
stream, WebTransport or otherwise; see {{Section 4 of !RFC9000}}.

## Limiting the Number of Simultaneous Sessions {#flow-control-limit-sessions}

This document defines a SETTINGS_WEBTRANSPORT_MAX_SESSIONS parameter that allows
the server to limit the maximum number of concurrent WebTransport sessions on a
single HTTP/3 connection.  The client MUST NOT open more sessions than
indicated in the server SETTINGS parameters.  The server MUST NOT close the
connection if the client opens sessions exceeding this limit, as the client and
the server do not have a consistent view of how many sessions are open due to
the asynchronous nature of the protocol; instead, it MUST reset all of the
CONNECT streams it is not willing to process with the `HTTP_REQUEST_REJECTED`

> status defined in [HTTP3].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
status defined in {{HTTP3}}.
```

As a general rule, I recommend {{}} over [] because the latter will silently fail whereas the former does not.

Just like other HTTP requests, WebTransport sessions, and data sent on those
sessions, are counted against flow control limits.  This document does not
introduce additional mechanisms for endpoints to limit the relative amount of

> flow control credit consumed by different WebTransport sessions, however

Author: Removed in 78d2456

servers that wish to limit the rate of incoming requests on any particular
session have alternative mechanisms:

* The `HTTP_REQUEST_REJECTED` error code defined in [HTTP3] indicates to the
  receiving HTTP/3 stack that the request was not processed in any way.
* HTTP status code 429 indicates that the request was rejected due to rate
  limiting {{!RFC6585}}.  Unlike the previous method, this signal is directly
  propagated to the application.

> ## Limiting the Number of Streams Within a Session {#flow-control-limit-streams}

Reviewer 2: We should probably point out somewhere inside this section that this mechanism only works when you have reliable resets for stream headers.

Author: Added some initial text for this in 78d2456

The WT_MAX_STREAMS capsule ({{WT_MAX_STREAMS}}) establishes a limit on the
number of streams within a WebTransport session.  Like the QUIC MAX_STREAMS
frame ({{Section 19.11 of !RFC9000}}), this capsule has two types that provide
separate limits for unidirectional and bidirectional streams that are initiated
by a peer.

The session-level stream limit applies in addition to the QUIC MAX_STREAMS
frame, which provides a connection-level stream limit.  New streams can only be
created within the session if both the stream- and the connection-level limit
permit; see {{Section 4.6 of !RFC9000}} for details on how QUIC stream limits
are applied.

Unlike the WT_MAX_STREAMS capsule or the QUIC MAX_STREAMS frame, there is no
simple relationship between the value in this frame and stream IDs in QUIC
STREAM frames.  This especially applies if there are other users of streams on
the connection.

> The WT_STREAMS_BLOCKED capsule ({{WT_STREAMS_BLOCKED}}) is sent to indicate that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The WT_STREAMS_BLOCKED capsule ({{WT_STREAMS_BLOCKED}}) can be sent to indicate that
```

an endpoint was unable to create a stream due to the session-level stream
limit.

## Data Limits {#flow-control-limit-data}

The WT_MAX_DATA capsule ({{WT_MAX_DATA}}) establishes a limit on the amount of
data that can be sent within a WebTransport session.  This limit counts all data
that is sent on streams of the corresponding type, excluding the stream header
(see {{unidirectional-streams}} and {{bidirectional-streams}}).  The stream
header is excluded from this limit so that this limit does not prevent the
sending of information that is essential in linking new streams to a specific
WebTransport session.

Implementing WT_MAX_DATA requires that the QUIC stack provide the WebTransport
implementation with information about the final size of streams; see {{Section

> 4.5 of !RFC9000}}.

Reviewer: Is it worth highlighting this as a difference?  With HTTP/2 you don't need this, but HTTP/3 means that you are creating streams all over and using final size.  We might also note that this is independent of any RESET_STREAM_AT functionality.

Author: When you say highlighting this as a difference, what're you thinking? Like adding additional text to describe how this works here as opposed to H2? (I'd imagine we'd add that to H2 where we refer to this capsule?)

Reviewer 3: It might help the average reader to explain why they need final size and how the webtransport implementation should use it.

Author: Added a small note about the stream header exclusion and we'll go through in more detail about final size differences across layers in our upcoming meeting.

> 4.5 of !RFC9000}}.

Reviewer 2: I didn't realize this.  Actually, the more I think about WT_MAX_DATA, the more concerning I find it from the implementation perspective.

So, to implement this mechanism, the WebTransport stack has to
1. Do its own accounting of how many bytes were written for the session in total.
2. Block whenever the application tries to write in excess.
3. Record all blocked streams.
4. Wake those streams up when the credit has been received, in the priority order.

While none of those steps seems to be individually challenging, that's a lot of machinery, leaving implementers quite a bit in terms of room to screw things up.  It is also really tempting for implementers to merge QUIC-level flow control blocks with the WebTransport-level ones, probably leading to large cross-layer mess.

Author: Hmm, I'm not sure how different this is from what an application needs to do in order to correctly provide back pressure for any connection that is multiplexing multiple independent streams. 

In that case, an application needs to: 
- Respond to back pressure signals from the underlying transport (TLS/TCP or QUIC), which then requires
- Blocking when the application tries to write in excess
- Keep track of which streams were blocked
- Tell those streams when they can write again / backpressure has been lifted. Ideally, in priority order.

Handling the fact that you may be restricted in how much you can send is something that everyone doing this muxing/demuxing needs to do, especially given priority -- priority only matters when there's a restriction on what we can send and we need to choose. If an implementation didn't already need to deal with this, we wouldn't need priorities at all.

Based on that, it seems like the main delta here is really just doing your own accounting of what that limit is vs. having someone below you tell you that you've run out.

> The WT_DATA_BLOCKED capsule ({{WT_DATA_BLOCKED}}) is sent to indicate that an

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The WT_DATA_BLOCKED capsule ({{WT_DATA_BLOCKED}}) can be sent to indicate that an
```

WebTransport over HTTP/3 uses several capsules for flow control, and all of
these capsules define special intermediary handling as described in
{{Section 3.2 of HTTP-DATAGRAM}}.  These capsules, referred to as the "flow
control capsules" are WT_MAX_DATA, WT_MAX_STREAMS, WT_DATA_BLOCKED, and
WT_STREAMS_BLOCKED.

Because flow control in WebTransport is hop-by-hop and does not provide an
end-to-end signal, intermediaries MUST consume flow control signals and express
their own flow control limits to the next hop.  The intermediary can send these
signals via HTTP/3 flow control messages, HTTP/2 flow control messages, or as
WebTransport flow control capsules, where appropriate.  Intermediaries are
responsible for storing any data for which they advertise flow control credit
if that data cannot be immediately forwarded to the next hop.

In practice, an intermediary that translates flow control signals between
similar WebTransport protocols, such as between two HTTP/3 connections, can
often simply reexpress the same limits received on one connection directly on
the other connection.

An intermediary that does not want to be responsible for storing data that

> cannot be immediately sent on its translated connection would ensure that it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cannot be immediately sent on its translated connection can ensure that it
```

  SETTINGS_WEBTRANSPORT_INITIAL_MAX_STREAMS_BIDI
* WT_MAX_DATA via SETTINGS_WEBTRANSPORT_INITIAL_MAX_DATA

## Flow Control Capsules

### WT_MAX_STREAMS Capsule {#WT_MAX_STREAMS}

*[WT_MAX_STREAMS]: #

An HTTP capsule {{HTTP-DATAGRAM}} called WT_MAX_STREAMS is introduced to inform
the peer of the cumulative number of streams of a given type it is permitted to
open.  A WT_MAX_STREAMS capsule with a type of 0x190B4D3F applies to
bidirectional streams, and a WT_MAX_STREAMS capsule with a type of 0x190B4D40
applies to unidirectional streams.

Note that, because Maximum Streams is a cumulative value representing the total
allowed number of streams, including previously closed streams, endpoints
repeatedly send new WT_MAX_STREAMS capsules with increasing Maximum Streams
values as streams are opened.

~~~
WT_MAX_STREAMS Capsule {
  Type (i) = 0x190B4D3F..0x190B4D40,
  Length (i),
  Maximum Streams (i),
}
~~~
{: #fig-wt_max_streams title="WT_MAX_STREAMS Capsule Format"}

WT_MAX_STREAMS capsules contain the following field:

   Maximum Streams:
   : A count of the cumulative number of streams of the corresponding type that

>      can be opened over the lifetime of the connection. This value cannot

Reviewer 3: s/connection/session/ ?

Author: Good catch, updated, thanks!

     exceed 2<sup>60</sup>, as it is not possible to encode stream IDs larger
     than 2<sup>62</sup>-1.

An endpoint MUST NOT open more streams than permitted by the current stream
limit set by its peer.  For instance, a server that receives a unidirectional

> stream limit of 3 is permitted to open streams 3, 7, and 11, but not stream

Reviewer 3: Just talking out loud to remind myself - 

WT doesn't need logic about "implicitly" opening streams that have not arrived with lower stream numbers, like QUIC does, because there's no guarantee those quic streams are bound for this session.  A receiver just maintains a counter of how many streams have been opened and if that counter ever exceeds the last WT_MAX_STREAMS value then it's an error.

The WT_STREAMS_BLOCKED capsule defines special intermediary handling, as
described in {{Section 3.2 of HTTP-DATAGRAM}}.  Intermedaries MUST consume
WT_STREAMS_BLOCKED capsules for flow control purposes and MUST generate and
send appropriate flow control signals for their limits.

## WT_MAX_DATA Capsule {#WT_MAX_DATA}

*[WT_MAX_DATA]: #

An HTTP capsule {{HTTP-DATAGRAM}} called WT_MAX_DATA (type=0x190B4D3D) is
introduced to inform the peer of the maximum amount of data that can be sent on
the WebTransport session as a whole.

This limit counts all data that is sent on streams of the corresponding type,
excluding the stream header (see {{unidirectional-streams}} and
{{bidirectional-streams}}).  Implementing WT_MAX_DATA requires that the QUIC
stack provide the WebTransport implementation with information about the final
size of streams; see {{Section 4.5 of !RFC9000}}.

~~~
WT_MAX_DATA Capsule {
  Type (i) = 0x190B4D3D,
  Length (i),
  Maximum Data (i),
}
~~~
{: #fig-wt_max_data title="WT_MAX_DATA Capsule Format"}

WT_MAX_DATA capsules contain the following field:

   Maximum Data:
   : A variable-length integer indicating the maximum amount of data that can be

>      sent on the entire connection, in units of bytes.

Reviewer 3: Do we mean session and not connection?

Author: Updated!
